\[Draft\] Note: this is written in a mere 20 minutes.

Hypothesis: I, and people in general, seem to really underestimated this rather trivial statement that people don't really learn about something when they don't spend the time doing it/thinking about it. my thought includes improving your own self, and human modeling. Here are a list of related concepts. I was inspired by the first 2 and things below are connections to slightly different preexisting ideas in my mind. I am on the lookout for more instances of this hypothesis.

*   cached thoughts, on yourself

You should expect yourself to be the exact same if you haven't put in the time to think about that topic, especially high-level topics like math. (I acknowledge that motor skills require less thinking) It is a mere wish to be a different person since the last time; You don't just learn a new theorem automatically.

*   cached thoughts, on modelling human

There was this bias that you assume other people are at around the same level as you, that is obviously false, but it is quite hard to internalize this. People really don't automatically improve themselves either, there must be a push for that to happen.

*   there's a very limited amount you can learn by just reading a few summaries:

Some texts are better than others, but even if you only read the best text on the topic you are trying to learn, rephrased using magic to cater for yourself, there is still a maximum bandwidth on learning. Don't expect to replicate what other people is able to do in just a few hours.

Alternatively, if the questions you ask are specific enough, then you may just be able to somewhat master that concept in a short amount of time. This seems to be how the "Learn in <very short amount of time" courses out there do.

*   Expect to learn almost nothing when you are not thinking

I guess this may not be true, but currently I model myself to be basically wasting time when I don't think.

Trial of using github to host [version history](https://github.com/Glinte/Shortform/blob/master/Underestimated%20Statement)
